# 2012-10-28 - The Current - In Studio

[Youth]

**Bill:** That's the band Daughter, live in the studio, it's a track from The Wild Youth EP that's called Youth, it's Elena, Igor and Remi from the band, here on 89.3 The Current. Welcome to the studio, it's nice to have you here.

**Elena:** Hello!

**Igor:** Thank you for having us.

**Bill:** Why don't you start with your epic journey here, apparently you had a flat tire at Indiana, and what can go wrong, kind of did go wrong, huh?

**Igor:** Yeah, exactly, lost a lot of sleep over that.

**Bill:** Yeah, I can imagine, that's probably hard to come by when you're out on the road, huh?

**Igor:** Yeah, and the spare tire in the car was just like one of those, you know, like small safety times.

**Bill:** Oh, the kind, yeah, you're not supposed to drive many miles in those things.

**Igor:** Yeah, exactly, so yeah, we just drove and tried to get our car replaced cause it was a rental and that didn't go well either, so yeah.

**Elena:** Yeah, exactly.

**Bill:** So you got here to play the CMJ festival, is that why you're touring the States right now as we speak?

**Elena:** I mean, I think we planned a tour and then it just fit really nicely around CMJ week, which was, yeah, it was just really good.

**Bill:** Did you guys have a nice time in New York then?

**Elena:** We did, yeah, it was really good.

**Igor:** Yeah, it was really good fun.

**Bill:** And you played, what kind of venues were you playing?

**Igor:** We played Terminal 5, supporting The Walkmen, that was pretty amazing, it's a nice room. And we thought it fit our sound quite well, so maybe, maybe one day.

**Elena:** And we played Mercury Lounge again, cause we came over in March and then we played Mercury Lounge then. And then we played it again, which was really nice to kind of be in a familiar room, I think it's easier to deal with.

**Bill:** So you're from London, does New York kind of have the same feel for you guys? I mean, does it kind of feel a little bit like London?

**Igor:** It feels bigger than London, even less of a horizon.

**Elena:** Yeah, it kind of is, it does have its similarities though, I think, so like certain areas kind of remind you of like Oxford Circus and stuff like that.

**Igor:** But still like multiplied.

**Elena:** But like really much taller.

**Bill:** Yeah, London doesn't really have the big skyscrapers everywhere, only in certain parts of town, doesn't it?

**Elena:** Not really.

**Igor:** No, it's kind of, well, it's obviously older.

**Bill:** Yeah 

**Igor:** but everything, I mean, even Piccadilly Circus has a few big screens here and there, but when you go on Manhattan, it's just crazy.

**Bill:** So tell us about Daughter, now Elena, that started off as your project, right?
  
**Elena:** Yeah, I mean, I was writing by myself for a while and then I think Daughter kind of started when I'd met Igor and we sort of decided, well, I asked him to play some guitar for me at a show and then we just started jamming on songs. So it kind of started really from that sort of basis

**Bill:** From the two of you?

**Elena:** Yeah.

**Bill:** And when did Remi come into the picture then?

**Elena:** Well, Remi we'd known for quite, well, I've known Remi for quite a few years from college and we met him there and we just, yeah, we really loved his style. We had like this kind of showcase class where you have to, it's really funny, you have to get into like groups and play a song. And it's like your own song and you have to like arrange it and stuff, and I didn't really do any work. So I remember being paired with Remi and I just kind of went: "Remi, just do whatever you want!"

**Remi:** Do something!

**Elena:** Just do something!

**Igor:** [unaudible]

**Elena:** Yeah, and he was like amazing, like it just, what he came up with was like, you know, better than anything I could come with.

**Bill:** The magic happened right away then, huh?

**Elena:** Yeah, yeah, I think so.

**Bill:** That's how you knew when you had a drummer. How did you come up with the name Daughter for the band?

**Elena:** I don't really know.

**Bill:** Yeah, it's kind of weird because it's one of those bands if you punch it into Google, all kinds of crazy stuff pops up.

**Elena:** Yeah, especially because we've got a new song called Smother.

**Bill:** Daughter Smother.

**Elena:** So that's pretty grim.

**Bill:** Yeah, that is pretty, I don't even want to see what's going to pop up when you hear it

**Elena:** Don't even look, it's not nice.

**Bill:** Yeah, so has music always been in your blood then, Elena?

**Elena:** Not really, I'm not very musical, like instrument wise, I mean I would say I'm quite bad. But in terms of listening to music and appreciating music, yeah, I think it's been sort of passed through me from my family and from relatives and stuff. Because they're big music listeners.

**Bill:** What did your family listen to when you were growing up and stuff?

**Elena:** Well, my mom and dad mainly listened to kind of sort of 70s music. My dad's a really big Bob Dylan fan and Neil Young fan. And so I think that's kind of been passed down to me through them from a really young age. And then my grandfather was a really good singer, he's like an Irish, basically he's Irish. So he sang loads of traditional folk songs when I was growing up, so yeah, it was really cool.

**Bill:** How about you, Igor?

**Igor:** Me, I come from a very unmusical family, apart from my granddad who used to sing in choirs and stuff. But apart from that, I kind of picked it up by myself. Yeah, and just took some guitar lessons for a bit and moved to London to just kind of see how I do with music over there. And then I met Elena and quite quickly started working together.

**Bill:** Alright, Remi, the floor is yours, how did you get involved in this business? How did you get started on the drums and stuff?

**Remi:** Oh man, I was pretty young when I started, yeah, I've always kind of played drums with percussion. I can't really remember when I started, but yeah, I can't really play anything else or do any. I'm not very good at, I was not very good at school. Yeah, music is the one thing I'm not half bad at doing, so I stuck with it for a bit.

**Bill:** Well, excellent, well it's really nice to have you here. How about some more music from Daughter here on 89.3 The Current, what are you going to play for us?

**Elena:** I will play Love.

[Love]

**Bill:** It's 89.3, The Current, a song called Love from The Wild Youth EP. It's the band Daughter, who's in the studio with us. So when you were out in New York, you not only played CMJ, you actually had your television debut on David Letterman. Was that a thrill to be on an American chat show?

**Elena:** It was. It was very surreal. I'd never been on TV before, so that was definitely a strange experience.

**Bill:** Well, it's kind of cool that a band that's only been around a couple of years with a few EPs is on a big time talk show.

**Elena:** Yeah, we don't quite know how we got there.

**Bill:** That's really awesome. Did you get to meet Dave? Was he nice to you?

**Elena:** We only got to meet him when he came over after we played, and he shook our hands and was like, well done.

**Igor:** Basically in front of the cameras.

**Elena:** But yeah, no, he seemed a nice guy. He's really tall.

**Igor:** Kind of a [unaudible]

**Bill:** Yeah, he is a tall, tall fella. He's been on the air for like 30 years over here, so it's pretty cool that you're able to pull that off. So one of your singles, I noticed, was mastered at Abbey Road Studios.

**Elena:** Yeah.

**Igor:** Actually, our second EP, The Wild Youth, was also mastered at Abbey Road, just in a different room.

**Bill:** What was it like to be in the place where so many legendary Beatles recordings? Not only Beatles. I mean, the Red Hot Chili Peppers recorded there and others, too. 

**Igor:** Yeah, plenty of people.

**Remi:** Kylie Minogue.

**Igor:** Yeah, it's pretty amazing. They have loads of tape machines lying around the corridors. Big deal.

**Elena:** Yeah, we kind of wanted to steal one, but we thought it would be a bit obvious, us walking out of this massive tape machine.

**Igor:** No, it's great. It's really nice. I mean, there's loads of people every day just show up in front of Abbey Road Studios, hoping to get in. 

**Bill:** And you were there for business. You weren't just there for a photo op or anything like that.

**Igor:** No, it was cool. It's great. And people are very professional and big music lovers, so it's really nice. I mean, you didn't get to see any of the recording studios, but already the mastering suites are nice with some windows and natural light.

**Bill:** Did you get a picture of the band crossing the street with somebody with their shoes off?

**Igor:** No, we didn't.

**Elena:** There were too many people over there. 

**Igor:** The crossing is at the wrong place now. It used to be somewhere else, and they've changed it.
So people are actually taking pictures at the wrong place.

**Bill:** And they don't even know it.

**Igor:** Most of them probably don't know. 

**Elena:** They don't know. No one has got to tell them, I don't think.

**Bill:** So you guys are signed to the 4AD label, which is a really, I mean, I think of bands like Pixies and Cocteau Twins back from the 80s and early 90s and stuff. More recently, there's bands like Bon Iver and Tune-Yards and St. Vincent. How does it feel to be signed to a label like that? It must be kind of cool, huh?

**Igor:** Yeah, it's great. So we were signed to Glassnote in the US and Canada and Mexico, and 4AD for the rest of the world. So we really feel blessed to have those two labels on our side. And yeah, 4AD, I mean, its history is absolutely amazing. That, again, is kind of a bucket list thing, obviously. Yeah, it's great. Yeah, we feel also almost challenged to do something that is really artistically relevant and to be just creative like all the other artists on that label.

**Bill:** So you said bucket list. You got anything else scratched off of the bucket list?

**Igor:** Oh, no, I don't actually have a bucket list. Someone actually mentioned that the other day, and then I just thought, yeah, that's a good way of seeing it.

**Bill:** So whose music do you, you know, you've been logging all these miles here in the States. Whose music do you all agree on? 

**Igor:** I think Bon Iver is definitely one of them.

**Elena:** Yeah, and I think Sigur Rós is a car favorite driving. 

**Bill:** I was going to ask you about that because you play a boat with your guitar like Jónsi does.

**Igor:** Yeah, Jimmy Page as well. Yeah, the difference I have is I use a double bass bow. But yeah, definitely just ripped them off massively.

**Bill:** You saw somebody do that and you say, I want to do something just like that.

**Igor:** Well, yeah, I mean, it just felt like it suited the song basically. I tried different things and that's what worked. So, you know, it just just used it. And there'd probably be some more also on the album as well. It's a more bowing happening.

**Bill:** Yeah. Album. Do you have an album on the way then in the coming year? Is that kind of the plan?

**Elena:** Yeah, definitely. So, yeah, we're thinking it should be out and ready by like early next year.

**Bill:** Early next year.

**Elena:** Yeah, hopefully.

**Bill:** Something to look forward to in 2013. 

**Elena:** Yeah. 

**Bill:** Yeah. It's the band Daughter. Thanks so much for coming by. I want to thank engineer Michael DeMarc and producer Jade. And I want to thank Elena and Igor and Remi for coming by. It's been excellent having you here. 

**Igor:** Thank you.

**Elena:** Thank you very much.

**Bill:** Good luck on the rest of your tour. May all four of your tires work well and not pop on you or something.

**Igor:** Thank you very much.

**Bill:** So what are you going to wrap up with then?

**Elena:** A song called Tomorrow.

**Bill:** It's Daughter live in the studio. Thanks so much for dropping by here on 89.3 The Current.

[Tomorrow]
