# 2012-10-18 - WFUV

**Elena:** It kind of started out as a weird, crazy, strange habit that I had, keeping lots of thoughts on paper.

**Russ:** Elena Tonra, lyricist and vocalist of the UK band Daughter, talking about how she first began writing songs. And it's a good thing that she still maintains that weird and crazy habit of keeping her thoughts on paper, because it's led to two excellent EPs and a soon-to-be-released full-length debut in 2013. This is Take Five from WFUV.  

Hey there, it's Russ Borris. The band Daughter initially began as a solo project by Elena Tonra, but she soon recruited drummer Remi Aguilella and boyfriend Igor Hefeli to fill out the sound. The London Trio Daughter released two powerful EPs this year, His Young Heart and The Wild Youth, which we've been enjoying on the alternate side, and we were pleased to find out that they'll be releasing their full-length debut early next year. The two EPs and the forthcoming full-length debut were produced by band member Igor Hefeli, and when the band stopped by WFUV's Studio A recently, The Alternate Side's Kara Manning talked to Igor about his role as producer and to Elena about her writing process.

**Kara:** Do you initially see yourself as being a producer? I mean, was that something that you were feeling?

**Igor:** No. The funny thing is, the reason why I started recording stuff is that I bought some recording equipment to record demos for the songwriting school I was going to go to, and I was saving money to go there, so I spent a year working, and I spent a good amount of that money on recording equipment in the end, because I got really into it, and that's like the first times I really recorded it, and then I just developed that when I moved to London.

**Kara:** Well, obviously money well spent, because look where you are, you're in the Bronx now.

**Igor:** Yeah, well, I mean, it was really just recording the first EP, so it was just, I was saying to Elena, it just makes complete sense, like why I bought these microphones and stuff.

**Kara:** So there you go, that's a lesson learned, kids, you invest now in the recording equipment.

[Candles]

**Kara:** Do you write lyrics prior to writing a song, or do you always have to have the music in front of you first?

**Elena:** It definitely varies, to be honest, sometimes they both tend to kind of just come together at the same time, so I don't know, an example already. Youth was one, actually, that just, I started playing the guitar riff, and then I just sort of scribbled, and that was how that came about. It mainly happens if I don't have something to play, and I'm saying I'm like on a train or something, and I've got my notebook, then that's when those kind of songs start, where it's just like, it is kind of like a poem almost, that you then sort of transfer to music.

**Kara:** Given the boyfriend-girlfriend relationship, and Remi back here, who is part of this beautiful triangle, do you ever, Igor, listen to what Elena has worked on, and went: "wow, really? Are you okay?"

**Igor:** Yes, I know, I think it's definitely a door to something within the writer, but it doesn't mean that there's anything wrong with that person, it's just a way to getting all those dark thoughts out of there, and it's much better to do that than other things. 

[Youth]

**Russ:** Live music from the UK band Daughter, and the song Youth. This session was engineered by Daniel Hodd, and today's Take 5 was produced by Alisa Ali. Hear more artists like this at TheAlternateSide.org.
