# 2013-01-17 - Juice 107.2FM

**Tony:** This is The Mixtape on Juice 107.2, we've come into our session studio once again tonight. To bring you tonight's guest, we're joined by Elena Tonra from Daughter. Good evening Elena.

**Elena:** Hello.

**Tony:** How are you?

**Elena:** I'm well, how are you?

**Tony:** Alright thank you. Yeah, it's been a cold evening here in Brighton.

**Elena:** Yeah.

**Tony:** But thanks for coming down.

**Elena:** Oh, no worries at all.

**Tony:** You're playing tonight at St Mary's Church, completely sold out.

**Elena:** Yeah.

**Tony:** In fact, your whole tour's been sold out, hasn't it?

**Elena:** Yeah, I think so now. Yeah, I think it's all sold out, which is pretty unbelievable, but great.

**Tony:** Yeah, and you've been playing some really, really nice venues. I mean, you're not playing the normal kind of gig trail venues, you're playing theatres and churches.

**Elena:** Yeah, I think we're always quite conscious that we want to have quite special venues, so we were very up for playing churches. We've played in quite a few churches actually, over the course of being a band, so yeah, that's cool, it's really nice.

**Tony:** And I mean, maybe this is an obvious question, but what makes it so special and why does it suit your music so much to play in venues like that?

**Elena:** I think it's just that we really like the acoustics of churches, it's kind of very, sort of, I don't know, atmospheric and it's slightly, I mean, I'm not extremely a religious person, but it's quite, there's something about a church, you just walk in and you kind of, I don't know, it's quite atmospheric, maybe slightly eerie, but in a positive way.

**Tony:** We don't need to be religious to walk into a church and just be sort of taken by the beauty of the actual architecture, but I have read that you find performance and playing live on stage quite a terrifying thing to do, and from the short time I was spending with you today, I can kind of see that that's probably the case. Has that always been the case? Is it getting better?

**Elena:** I think it's always been the case, I think even more so before I met Igor and Remi because I did a bit of sort of solo stuff, which was pretty terrible, but it was really nice to have them on stage with me because it's definitely for a lot more support from having it, being in a band and having people play with you, so it's great.

**Tony:** People to share the burden.

**Elena:** Yeah, but it is pretty terrifying. I'm definitely not a natural performer. I'm no, what shall I say?

**Tony:** You're no show-off.

**Elena:** I'm no show-off. No.

**Tony:** Do you remember one of these kids at, when they were young, who wanted to stand up in front of the family and play guitar and impress the aunties and uncles?

**Elena:** No, I was one of the kids that hid behind people's knees. I just said, don't look at me.

**Tony:** Do you think the fear of performing actually adds something to what people are seeing or do you just try and mask it as much as you can?

**Elena:** I think so. I think it probably adds something. I don't know if it's a positive thing, but it certainly, yeah, I think it probably just adds to our sound and to the kind of band we are. I think we're all pretty awkward on stage. So yeah, I think it just adds to us as a band and who we are.

**Tony:** I'm just intrigued by people who get a stage fright yet choose to go on stage and perform every night. I find it fascinating.

**Elena:** It's very weird. I think it's the thing is it's kind of, you know, it's just, it is really enjoyable. I think once you're out there and when you're playing, it's like the best feeling, but it's just the getting out there to begin with that's a bit more.

**Tony:** The challenging part. Yeah, the bit they need a kind of a poke to get on stage.

**Elena:** And a beer. Poking a beer. It's fine.

**Tony:** That'll work. You started off as a solo artist. I mean, Daughter are a three piece band now, but you started off as a solo artist. How many of the songs that you wrote initially on your own sort of made it through to where Daughter are at the moment?

**Elena:** Well, I suppose for the first part, I mean, His Young Heart EP, the first one we did was a lot of the songs were very much just acoustic songs that I'd written on guitar that then I worked with Igor with and we sort of added different instrumentation around it. But I think it's kind of the second EP was again, I mean, it's sort of the song start mainly on acoustic. It's been a bit different now with the album, but mainly on acoustic and then lyrics I write, but then the music is very collaborative. I mean, Igor's very involved in the actual music side of things. And then all three of us arrange the songs together. 

**Tony:** So they're going to do a live track for us now, which we're really, really excited about. We're going to play the track Smother in just a moment, but you're going to play a different track live for us at the moment. Tell us about this song.

**Elena:** The song Candles. It's basically, it was written for the first EP and it's definitely a personal song, but I think it's very shrouded in poetic language that I'm trying to disguise.

**Tony:** So mask your real feelings.

**Elena:** Yeah, which is usually what I just deviate from the real, what I'm trying to say by masking things quite a lot in lyrics, but yeah. 

**Tony:** So it's like, here are my feelings, but I don't want you to know what my feelings are. So I'm going to change the lyrics and kind of make it mysterious.

**Elena:** Pretty much. Yeah.

**Tony:** Okay. So this is Elena Tonra from Daughter on Juice 107.2 playing Candles live on Juice.

[Candles]

**Tony:** That was really, really lovely. Thank you very much for that, Elena. That was Daughter on Juice One at 87.2 with Candles. Lovely, intricate guitar work, I thought.

**Elena:** Thank you. Thanks very much.

**Tony:** So that's been around since you were at music college.

**Elena:** Yeah, in a different form to how it is on the EP. Yeah, it's been around for a while. It's quite an older song. 

**Tony:** And that's a particularly personal track as well. 

**Elena:** Yeah, pretty much all the songs are.

**Tony:** I was thinking about asking you what it was about, but I suspect that you don't want people to know anyway.

**Elena:** No, I never tell anyone anything.

**Tony:** Really? Do your band members know?

**Elena:** No, no one knows.

**Tony:** Am I saying you and Igor are together, you're a couple?

**Elena:** Yeah.

**Tony:** So does he know?

**Elena:** No.

**Tony:** Never asks.

**Elena:** He knows nothing.

**Tony:** He knows nothing. He's the boyfriend, he's not supposed to know anything. I always wonder when you've got bands where people in the band are in a relationship and obviously lyrics come from relationships and emotions and things like that, how that works, but if he doesn't know what they're about, then I'm sure it's not caused you a problem yet.

**Elena:** Yeah, I'm sure he can guess, but we haven't had the discussion.

**Tony:** You've been keeping away from that?

**Elena:** Yeah.

**Tony:** I noticed your track Youth was used on the Tour de France coverage.

**Elena:** Yeah, I didn't even know that until my mum rang me up. We don't own a TV, so my mum rang me up very excited about that one.

**Tony:** So you never actually saw it or heard it yourself?

**Elena:** So I did see it when I went round there. She made sure that we sat in front of the TV until it came on. She was extremely excited, but yeah.

**Tony:** Is that a little surreal?

**Elena:** Very, yeah. I really liked the fact that it was quite literal in the way they placed it, like the lyrics, like the finnish line is one of the words, and it was like bikes going, yeah, it was great.

**Tony:** And one of the other things I saw you on, and I wonder where the sort of fear of performing comes into this, I saw your performance on David Letterman, obviously playing in front of a massive audience in America. What was that experience like? Were you completely and utterly bricking it?

**Elena:** Yeah, pretty much absolutely terrified. Yeah, it was, I don't know, I just didn't really enjoy it in the moment because I was too busy being just terrified. But looking back, it was quite good, I think. 

**Tony:** Yeah, sounded great, looked great. 

**Elena:** We did all right, hopefully.

**Tony:** The only awkward bit was when David Letterman tried to crack on to you after the performance. Talk us through that bit because that was hilarious.

**Elena:** I think it was really funny because I didn't really know how to, I went over to basically fiddle with my amp while he was doing the goodbye see you next week bit, and then he started talking to me, and I sort of had my back towards him, so I was like, oh, hello. And then, yeah, then he said something about, I don't know, to be honest, it was all a bit surreal.

**Tony:** He asked you about, he said that, introduced you or outro'd you by saying you were from London. And then said that he had a hotel suite at The Savoy and that you should go and visit him in there. I mean, awkward.

**Elena:** I know, it was really awkward, but the funny thing was is that I think Igor and Remi didn't quite pick up that it might have been kind of a dodgy chat line. They thought we were all invited.

**Tony:** Yeah, can you imagine that, if you went over there for a party at David Letterman's and the other two were like, who are these two losers? Get rid of these two guys.

**Elena:** So it was pretty funny.

**Tony:** You're playing tonight at the St. Mary's Church. It is completely sold out. When can we expect more material from you? When can we find an album? I know March is the album. 

**Elena:** March is the album, yeah. So, yeah.

**Tony:** So the album's called If You Leave It comes out on March the 18th. 

**Elena:** Yes.

**Tony:** We'll let you get off now to St. Mary's Church. You've seen the venue.

**Elena:** Yes.

**Tony:** Nice, right?

**Elena:** Beautiful. Really lovely.

**Tony:** If anyone's on their way now to St. Mary's Church, do get yourself down there nice and quickly. Thank you very much to Elena Tonra from Daughter. Thanks for coming in tonight, Elena.

**Elena:** Thank you.

**Tony:** We're going to play your latest single, the most recent one, it came out late last year, but this is Smother by Daughter on Juice One at 87.2. See you later.

**Elena:** Bye.

[Smother]

**Tony:** Daughter with Smother on Juice One at 87.2. Thanks to Elena from Daughter, who came in to record a session for us, also have a little chat with us. They will be on stage just after 9 o'clock tonight in St. Mary's Church, if you're on your way down, you may wanna get moving. We also recorded a session track of the song you just heard, Smother, so we will play that for you next week on the show. Next up tonight though, music by Blur, we will play some Katy B as well and Kings of Leon.
