# Daughter

Words: Lauren Down \
Photos: Lucy Johnston \
lucyjohnston.co.uk \
ohdaughter.bandcamp.com

Milk steamers whir against the clattering of cups as we weave our way through the heavily caffeinated air of a crowded Crouch End coffee house to meet Daughter. Situated across from us is the formidable Park Chapel, a statement which may seem irrelevant if it weren't for the fact that this is the very church in which the Elena Tonra, Igor Haefeli and Remi Aguilella recorded Wild Youth. The follow up to His Young Heart, Wild Youth was not their first foray into releasing an EP but it was certainly their finest. In fact it was one of the 2011's finest: the kind of record that tied knots stomachs and involuntarily tightened the trachea. It has been over a year since they worked so concertedly on a record, and in fact almost a year to the day since I first met Elena in a similarly crowded coffee shop. And so it is we  once again crowd around the world's smallest table, taking no time to fill it with tea pots, pastries, coffee mugs and eager talk of the year past.

Elena is as charming as ever, Igor is distracted by thoughts of a full English breakfast and Remi is running late. A lot has changed for the three-piece since we last spoke, least of all their move to indie giants 4AD, but as they sit alongside stalwarts like Bon Iver and Grimes their wry sense of humour and quietly driven nature remains. As does the understated chemistry between Elena and Igor, bringing warmth to the conversation and to the crippling heartbreak of their work. You only have to listen to recent album cut ‘Smother’ for all of 30 seconds to know what I'm talking about, Elena's fragile yet powerful vocals carving out every lyric against the atmospheric back drop as if it were the most poignant thing you ever heard. 

We talk about 4AD and how they feel about their new home.

“They came to our show at St. Giles In The Field in December the year before last and we just started talking, it was really natural and easy going,” recalls Igor. “It took a while but we got there in the end. We had other offers but we just felt like they were the most appropriate choice for what we wanted to know. Sometimes you just meet people and you get the feeling that they are the right people, you know? They were also more interested in what we wanted to do rather than what we had done.”

Elena grins: “They're just really great, we love them. It is good to work with people you know are like goodpeople. We've been lucky in that respect, or picky maybe … No bastards allowed!” she laughs as wedelve into the details of their first foray into the full length world, slated for release on 18 March. 

“There's no happy shit on there,” Elena assures me when I ask what we can expect of If You Leave. “No one should really ever expect me to write anything upbeat, they're all a bit you know...” She pulls a depressed, slightly awkward face as I reassure her that I know what she means, as will anybody who has paid any attention to their output to date. “We did decide to experiment a bit more though, I suppose. We started using more electronic sounds because we always wanted to see how we could merge those elements our acoustic beginnings. I don't know if I would say it's a richer sound. It's certainly a bigger one but it is still dark.”

We talk about how Ken Thomas, Rodaidh McDonald, Geoff Pesche and Jolyon Vaughan Thomas really helped pull things together but Igor of course has had his hand in the production throughout. 

“It has been a bit of a puzzle,” explains Igor. “Because we've been touring in between recording the process became quite separated. We ended up working in loads of small studios all over London. In one we did nothing but drums and the in another we played with the more atmospheric side of things. More recently we've been down in Surrey. It's quite nice to get out of the city. It has been a long process, I mean we started writing back in January and have only really re-used ‘Youth’.” 

“It has definitely been a weird process,” Elena continues. “I mean we've only done two EPs so we're used having only four songs to focus on and shape into a whole. Now we have more than double that we've found it quite difficult to get our heads around but it's been similar in many ways; it's very much still based on emotional dark rooms. It definitely branches out from our previous stuff but the writing all comes from the same place you know?” 

“We've been reclusive in most senses. I've found inspiration in the same places, the same artists. I think we've been quite experimental arrangement-wise though. We've really concentrated on the musical side of things, really making them work with the lyrics. We didn't always started with the lyrics and an acoustic guitar this time around.” Igor nods in agreement: “There were certainly more things that we could explore this time around.”

Remi joins us and we talk about Sigur Ros, Bjork, Sharon Van Etten and how Igor finds movies more inspiring than anything else. “The more I live my life, the more I find that my memory is much more visual than audio. If I like the sound of something it will immediately translate into an image, if it's bland to my ear, nothing will happen visually.” 

We discuss whether they'd ever consider adding visuals to their live shows and Remi answers, “at some point. I wouldn't want to rush it but if we knew someone who we instinctually thought could make some amazing visuals that would work with us then I'm definitely up for trying.”

Igor reiterates that “the music will always come first though. In recording the album we've had to remain quite conscious that we've not played any of the new tracks live yet, so we need to get that right first. Some of the songs have existed as demos for a while, but some are entirely new. It's strange, you don't want to compromise the record because you want to present the songs in the best possible way, which means live we may not be able to recreate everything.”

Upon hearing the new record in full that final concern seems irrelevant, if they can recreate but one iota of If You Leave live they will have done more than enough to tie knots in stomachs and involuntarily tighten tracheas all over again.
